NETOBSERV-1258: Add Netobserv packets drop blog (#50)
netobserv/documents: blogs/packet_drops/packets_drop.md

maintaining a high quality of service.
This is where eBPF (extended Berkeley Packet Filter) comes into play
as a powerful tool for real-time network performance analysis.
In this blog, we'll take a detailed look at how network observability
using eBPF can help in detecting and understanding packet drops,
enabling network administrators and engineers to proactively
address network issues.

## Detecting Packet Drops with eBPF

eBPF enables developers to set up tracepoints at key points within the network
stack. These tracepoints can help intercept packets at specific events,
such as when they are received, forwarded, or transmitted.
By analyzing the events around packet drops, you can gain insight into the
reasons behind them.
In network observability we are using `tracepoint/skb/kfree_skb` tracepoint hook
to detect when packets are dropped, the reason for packets drop and reconstruct
the flow and enrich it with drop metadata such as packets and bytes statistics,
for TCP only the latest TCP connection state as well as the TCP connection flags
are added.
Packets drop ebpf hook supports TCP, UDP, SCTP, ICMPv4 and ICMPv6 protocols.

> There are two main categories for packet drops, core subsystem drops which cover
> most of the host drop reasons; for the complete list please refer to
> https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/master/include/net/dropreason-core.h
> and OVS based drops which is a recent kernel enhancement; for reference please 
> checkout the following link
> https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/netdev/net-next.git/tree/net/openvswitch/drop.h.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are two main categories for packet drops. The first category, core subsystem drops, covers
most of the host drop reasons; for the complete list please refer to
https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/master/include/net/dropreason-core.h. Second, there are OVS-based drops, which is a recent kernel enhancement; for reference please 
checkout the following link
https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/netdev/net-next.git/tree/net/openvswitch/drop.h.
```

Reviewer: I suggest this punctuation instead. There is a comma splice and run-on sentence in the current construction.

## Kernel support

The drop cause tracepoint API is a recent kernel feature only available from RHEL9.2 
kernel version. Older kernel will ignore this feature if its configured.

## How to enable packet drops

> By default packets drop detection is disabled because it requires

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default packet drops detection is disabled because it requires
```

`privileged` access to the host kernel. To enable the feature we need 

> to create a flowcollector object with the following fields enabled in eBPF config

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to create a `FlowCollector` object with the following fields enabled in the eBPF config
```

section

```yaml
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1beta1
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  agent:
    type: EBPF
    ebpf:
      privileged: true
      features:
        - PacketsDrop
```

## A quick tour in the UI

> Once `PacketsDrop` feature enabled, the Console plugin will automatically adapt to provide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once the `PacketsDrop` feature is enabled, the OCP console plugin automatically adapts to provide
```

> additionnal filters and show informations across views.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
additional filters and show information across views.
```

Open your OCP Console and move to 
`Administrator view` -> `Observe` -> `Network Traffic` page as usual.

> A new query option will show to filter flows by their drop status:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now, a new query option is available to filter flows by their drop status:
```

Reviewer: In product docs, we avoid future tense because present tense is more immediate, in-the-moment where the customer is. Idk if you want to adopt that here. I think avoiding future tense makes the blog read more actionable.

![drop filter query option](./images/drop_filter_query_option.png)
- Fully dropped shows the flows that have 100% dropped packets
- Containing drops shows the flows having at least one packet dropped
- Without drops show the flows having 0% dropped packets
- All shows everything

> Two new filters, `Packet drop TCP state` and `Packet drop latest cause` will be available 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Two new filters, `Packet drop TCP state` and `Packet drop latest cause` are available 
```

in the common section:

![drop state & cause filters](./images/drop_state_cause_filters.png)

> The first one will allow you to set TCP state filter:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first one will allow you to set the TCP state filter:
```

![state filter](./images/state_filter.png)

- A _LINUX_TCP_STATES_H number like 1, 2, 3

> - A _LINUX_TCP_STATES_H TCP name like ESTABLISHED, SYN_SENT, SYN_RECV

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A _LINUX_TCP_STATES_H TCP name like `ESTABLISHED`, `SYN_SENT`, `SYN_RECV`
```

The second one will let you pick causes to filter on:

![cause filter](./images/cause_filter.png)

- A _LINUX_DROPREASON_CORE_H number like 2, 3, 4

> - A _LINUX_DROPREASON_CORE_H SKB_DROP_REASON name like NOT_SPECIFIED, 
> NO_SOCKET, PKT_TOO_SMALL

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A _LINUX_DROPREASON_CORE_H SKB_DROP_REASON name like `NOT_SPECIFIED`, 
`NO_SOCKET`, `PKT_TOO_SMALL`
```

### Overview

> New graphs will be introduced in the `advanced options` -> `manage panels` popup:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
New graphs are introduced in the `advanced options` -> `manage panels` popup:
```

![advanced options](./images/advanced_options.png)

- Top X flow dropped rates stacked
- Total dropped rate
- Top X dropped state
- Top X dropped cause
- Top X flow dropped rates stacked with total

Select the desired graphs to render them in the overview panel:

![drop graphs 1](./images/drop_graphs1.png)
![drop graphs 2](./images/drop_graphs2.png)
![drop graphs 3](./images/drop_graphs3.png)

Note that you can compare the top drops against total dropped or total traffic in the 
last graph using the kebab menu
![drop graph option](./images/drop_graph_options.png)

### Traffic flows
The table view shows the number of `bytes` and `packets` sent in green and the related numbers

> dropped in red. On top of that, you can get details about the drop in the side panel that will

Reviewer: ```suggestion
dropped in red. Additionally, you can get details about the drop in the side panel that
```

> bring you to the proper documentation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
brings you to the proper documentation.
```

![drop table](./images/drop_table.png)

### Topology

> Last but not least, the topology view display edges containing drops in red. That's useful 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Last but not least, the topology view displays edges containing drops in red. That's useful 
```

Reviewer: You need a "s" at the end of this verb since the noun "topology view" is singular. If it was "topology views" then "display" would be ok.

especially when digging on a specific drop reason between two resources.

![drop topology](./images/drop_topology.png)

## Potential use-case scenarios

> - NO_SOCKET drop reason: There might be packet drops observed due to the destination port being not reachable. This can be emulated by running a curl command on a node to an unknown port `while : ; do curl <another nodeIP>:<unknown port>; sleep 5; done`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `NO_SOCKET` drop reason: There might be packet drops observed due to the destination port being not reachable. This can be emulated by running a curl command on a node to an unknown port `while : ; do curl <another nodeIP>:<unknown port>; sleep 5; done`.
```

The drops can be observed on the console as seen below:

![NO_SOCKET drop table](./images/NO_SOCKET_table.png)

![NO_SOCKET drop overview](./images/NO_SOCKET_overview.png)

> - OVS_DROP_LAST_ACTION drop reason: OVS packet drops can be observed on RHEL9 and above. It

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- `OVS_DROP_LAST_ACTION` drop reason: OVS packet drops can be observed on RHEL9 and above. It
```

can be emulated by running the iperf command with network-policy set to drop on a particular port. These drops can be observed on the console as seen below:

![OVS drop table](./images/OVS_table.png)

![OVS drop topology](./images/OVS_topology.png)

![OVS drop overview](./images/OVS_overview.png)

## Resource impact of using PacketDrop

> The performance impact of using PacketDrop enabled with the Network Observability operator
> is on the flowlogs-pipeline(FLP) component. FLP uses higher CPU(about a 22% increase) and more memory(about a 9% increase) than baseline whereas there is not much considerable impact(less than 3% increase) on other components of the operator.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The performance impact of using PacketDrop enabled with the Network Observability operator
is noticeable on the flowlogs-pipeline(FLP) using ~22% and ~9% more vCPU and memory respectively when compared to baseline whereas impact on other components is not significant (less than 3% increase)```

section

```yaml
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1beta1
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  agent:
    type: EBPF
    ebpf:
      privileged: true
      features:

>         - PacketsDrop

Reviewer 2: That should end like this:
https://github.com/netobserv/network-observability-operator/pull/394/files#r1304927133

Let's keep an eye on the final output
